---
title: "Communicating the self."
date: "2019-04-03"
category: "thoughts"
type: "post"
image: "../../images/blog/mainstreet.jpg"
---

_What am I really like?_ This is a question that everyone has to grapple with as they consider who they are and how they communicate that self to other people. Sometimes we have characteristics that are consistent and easy to name, like being organized or athletic, but more often than not I think that motivating question is one that's hard to answer, probably because we all change depending on our surroundings. When I'm with my family, I love to be entertaining and outrageous to make them laugh, but at a party here at university I'm much less likely to be as vocal or the centre of attention. With fluctuating characteristics like those, it can be hard for me to decide whether or not it's part of what I'm truly like.

I think this consideration really comes into play when I consider my interpersonal relationships, because my level of closeness with someone feels largely dependent on how much of 'myself' I feel that I am when I'm with them. With every different friend there's a sense that they draw something unique out of me, a certain mode of thinking and communicating that our specific relationship engenders, and that some of those modes feel more internally consistent than others. One of my friends, Sophia, has an intellectual and existential preoccupation that brings out my own philosophical interest, whereas when I'm with my friend Erfan we have a high propensity for silliness and joy that's built on shared experiences and interests. In one of my social groups I'm the oldest so I tend to give advice, but in another group I'm the youngest and consequently often act a lot less responsible. Since all of these relationships are close friendships, I always feel like myself, but always some kind of approximation and never in my entirety. The closest I think I've ever been so far to people that draw out most of my inner self are my two sisters, and I imagine if I ever get married that my relationship with my husband will be along the same lines. Even though I can get close, I don't think it's even possible to find someone that will fully bring out who I think I am.

Connected to this is the mathematical understanding of an identity theorem or monoid. This structure specifies an operation and an element wherein the result of the operation applied to the element is the element itself. For example, with the operation of addition, the identity is 0 -- if you add 0 to any number, you get that original number back. (Illustratively, the identity of multiplication is 1, and so on... math actually has a lot of these!) When I learned how to formalize this in my discrete math class, my initial reaction was that the ideal relationship is an identity theorem for the self: one that you bring yourself to and get exactly yourself back. After thinking about that idea, I've decided that I don't agree - I think that good relationships have the capacity to shape us into better people by demanding more from us or focusing on our best parts. In other words, I'm not sure that it's even desirable to try to find someone that exactly brings out myself.

Despite this, there's definitely a strange sense of isolation that covers me when I realize that it will never be possible to communicate my inner self with someone else. Sometimes it feels like I'm trying to reach out but recognition is just beyond my grasp, or like I could talk for hours or write all the blog posts I could think of and I still wouldn't be able to tell someone else who I am. Most of the time, though, I've accepted that I'm the only one who will ever truly understand myself (if I can even reach that), and I'm happy with that because I like my own company. I think that I'm funny, I understand all of my own inside jokes immediately, my playlists have exactly the music I like, and I never have to explain myself when I'm alone because I already know what's happening.

To circle back to where I started, then, I don't know if there's ever a way to accurately communicate who I am, especially when my self is continually in a relational flux and the only person equipped to understand that is me. When I'm not prepared to get into all of this, though, I just tell people I'm an ENFJ :)
