---
title: "Layers and checkboxes."
date: "2015-10-16"
coverImage: "6e6f6018-c581-485a-adb3-5c5b6eda3f7a5f9a5e0e-ae8f-4138-b4bf-1f3fe7d76b7a1.jpg"
---

At the beginning of September, I started my first year of university. Since then, I feel like my mind and emotions have been running marathons trying to keep up with all the changes in my life -- living in a different city and residence, having to find my own food and pick my own outfits every day (after uniforms, it's a shock...), meeting hundreds of new people, adjusting to a completely new schedule... it's been a huge transition for me. One of the biggest shocks to me was moving to a place where no one knew me. When I began school, I knew only a couple people attending the same university as me, and I hadn't seen them at all. There was _no one_ around who knew what I was like, which was disconcerting. This fact, combined with all the other changes in my life, has made me think a lot more. I've come across two analogies (of sorts) that I've been using to help process my own thoughts during these last seven weeks.

The first is that of layers -- spatial layers, for lack of a better term. Ever since camp began I've been contemplating the way that physical places, collectively, hold all of our experiences. At camp, each different cabin holds a different set of experiences for me as a camper, LIT, and counselor. I stayed in the same cabin the whole summer, and each week formed a new layer of memories over the same physical space. Being in certain classrooms in my high school also strongly reminds me of this concept, as I remember where I sat in each different class throughout my years as a student when I walk into the room.

Moving to an entirely new place was weird because it was essentially a blank physical slate. There was nowhere I could go that brought back feelings of familiarity or reminded me of anything. In a strange sense, just like no one at university knew me, no place there did either. Since I've moved in and begun attending classes, I've started to form new layers. I'm sure when I'm an upper year I'll fondly remember certain classrooms as being my first classroom for \_\_ class, or trekking down certain paths with new friends. When I first arrived, though, it was certainly foreign. The concept of physical layers really struck me when I came back to Toronto to visit, because I felt almost overwhelmed by how comforted and secure certain places in the city, even just roads or subway stations, made me feel; they had some sort of experience attached to them, unlike the places I'd been frequenting at school.

The other analogy I've been considering is that of checkboxes, specifically relating to people in my life. By mid-grade 11, I had essentially determined the roles that certain people in my life played. By that, I mean that everyone needs specific things from other people: humour, advice, a listening ear, time spent together, etc. Some people like to find a small group of friends where each person fulfills many of these functions; others like large circles of friends, which affords each friend less responsibility to "check" one of the "boxes" (or functions) of friendship.

One thing I've noticed is that when describing a 'best friend', people often say something along the lines of: "We always have fun together, but we can still talk about serious stuff". To me, that's an indication that this concept of checkboxes is something that most people experience. In high school, if I wanted advice, I would ask one of my sisters, my parents, Janna, Renae, or Matt. If I really needed to laugh, I would talk to David or Trent. If I wanted to argue with someone for fun, I'd go to Tony or Naomi. I had figured out how I related to each person.

I realize that this analogy might make friendship seem formulaic, which isn't the intention at all. It's not like I have a mental list for each of my friends of what they can do for me; it's just a concept I've been using to adjust to making a completely new set of friends at university. Most of the time it's an instinctual response, to text certain people about specific things or ask them to do something with you. You just _know_ what the people around you are like. For me, moving to university, it wasn't really an issue of finding people to talk to or spend time with -- the students at my school are quite friendly. It was primarily just adjusting to the fact that I didn't know who gave good advice, or who was a good listener, or who wanted to talk about what. Since then, I've been spending time with my classmates and roommates and getting to know them, which makes me feel a lot more comfortable.

Anyways, these are just two of the ideas I've been using to consider all the changes in my life at the moment. I feel good about the way the year has progressed so far -- it's been challenging, but both my classes and the experience itself have been forcing me to think and examine life a lot more. I'm looking forward to what the second half of the term holds!
