---
title: "On honesty."
date: "2018-10-25"
coverImage: "market-e1540250757871.jpg"
---

_Currently listening to: [It's Not Living (If It's Not With You)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-14ylqaQC0) by The 1975, which is one of the latest singles from my favourite band (and a total bop)._

Now that fall break is behind me, it feels like I'm in that period of the semester where things are consistently _happening_ \- classes are in full swing and the regular patterns of each week that I've set are going (mostly) according to plan. Although I like the feeling of having a routine when it comes to facing the week, my least favourite part of this chunk of the semester is the monotonous conversations it entails.

This is how essentially every exchange on campus happens: _"Hey! How are you?"_ "I'm tired/busy, I have a midterm next week and a paper due Thursday. What about you?" _"Oh, I have an assignment due tomorrow and another one on Friday."_ And then the conversation ends, because there's nothing left to say, or one person gets into the specifics of their work. Sometimes the conversation goes straight into "Hey! How are you doing? Are you busy with schoolwork?" or "Hey, how's midterm season treating you?", and then there's no way out, not even if you wanted one.

I'll be perfectly honest here: I don't like telling people how school is going. I usually like the content of my classes and enjoy learning it, but talking about it in a passing conversation is too much work, and I don't think that other students really care about which types of queries I learned how to formulate in SQL today. The details and descriptions are boring enough to _me_, let alone _them._ The issue I then face is that I'm deeply resistant to participating in these conversations but don't really know how to shift the topic of conversation. To make this clear, it's not that I don't like small talk, I just don't like the formulaic, dull small talk of exchanging our assignment deadlines. I'm not trying to be pretentious or uncomfortably deep -- I just want to talk about _anything else_, the TV show you watched last night or what you were up to on the weekend or how the Raptors are doing or something weird that your housemate did. It's reached the point that when people ask me how school is going I say that it's 'fine', 'normal', or 'uneventful', all of which are truly terrible ways of carrying a conversation and possibly even worse than 'busy'.

My real problem is that these exchanges pile up until I feel like I'm starving for a real conversation, but when one finally takes place I get this unsettling feeling that I've lost my capacity to be authentic. I think that understanding and communicating your emotions and experiences is a skill -- something you can get better or worse at -- and the fewer opportunities I get to practice this skill the rustier I get. Part of the reason that I try to be diligent about blogging and journalling is that I want to improve at this skill and learn to unravel all the ideas in my mind. I'm in a place of frustration because when I sit down to talk to my friends I don't even know where to begin, and I'm scared that I'm now unable to honestly express what I've been thinking about or what's going on in my life. It's so much simpler when there's a good question to work from, but "How's school?" is not a good question.

I suppose the dilemma now is: how do I honestly respond to these inquiries, which I genuinely believe are coming out of a place of real interest and social norms and not _actually_ intended to frustrate me? Or maybe the bigger problem is actually that I have to find a way of processing my experiences that isn't reliant on turning brief encounters into serious conversations, or that I need to meet more frequently with friends that I can easily be honest with. I'll spend some time thinking about it, and I feel that articulating it all here has helped me as well.

Until then, if you're wondering how school is going for me... it's fine :)
