---
title: "Resisting anticipation."
date: "2018-06-17"
category: "thoughts"
type: "post"
---

Since I *should* be studying right now, it's the perfect time for me to write another blog post! I also figured it was about time for another brief life update and some thoughts about anticipation and the way it can sap away joy. (So stay tuned!)

First off, today is the last day of our week-long "study vacation", emphasis on the "vacation"! Exam period starts tomorrow and runs until the very end of June -- I have three exams and a final paper, but fortunately they're spread out, starting on the 19th and ending on the 29th. I've always found exam period so difficult because my entire daily schedule breaks down, and without anchors of classes or events it feels like my time just siphons away. I'm still working on creating systems that help me to focus and be productive in preparation for the end of the semester, but it's definitely a challenge.

Now that my friends and I don't have urgent assignments or presentations to do, we've been able to plan ahead and coordinate activities together before we all leave. It's been fun to get out into the city a bit more, play ping pong, go swing dancing, or even just study together in our building. Katie and I also went on a three day trip to Brisbane and Gold Coast, where we visited the Australia Zoo and explored Byron Bay, which was really fun! After a week of non-stop rain in Sydney it was definitely nice to get some sun and fit in some time at the beach before returning to the city in winter.

Something I was thinking about while walking on the beach in Gold Coast was how much the idea of anticipation has shaped this trip for me. I spent essentially a full year prior to exchange thinking, planning, applying, and researching for the trip; even my behaviour in the fall was shaped by the knowledge that I would be away come January. Once I arrived, I was always eagerly anticipating what I would do **next** -- what my plans were for the weekend, or what trip I should plan, or what attraction or event I should "check off my list". A few weeks ago, I was coordinating my itinerary after exams, and now I have to figure out my academic schedule for fourth year, and soon enough I'll have to think about what I want to do after I graduate from university. As soon as one thing finishes, there's an instinctual preoccupation with what's next.

It's good to be practical about planning for the future, but I'm not sure that it's productive to always be concerned with it. I've found that since booking my flight home I've been anticipating what's back in Canada -- seeing my family and friends again, using my good quality hair straightener, not monitoring my wifi usage -- and it's sapping away some of the joy that I have just being here, while I'm still here. In the same way, I don't want to spend the rest of my summer waiting for school to start, or the entirety of my school year waiting for graduation. It's difficult for me to just enjoy the "lull" periods of life, where I feel like I'm just waiting for the next exciting thing to happen to me, but I know that it's important that I find a way to do it. So I think the challenge for me now is to a) resist anticipating what's coming next and b) finish the semester strong -- wish me luck!!

_This post has been audio sponsored by "[I Wanna Get Better](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8twpQTna_9w)" by the Bleachers, which fits the classic genre of "songs that make me feel like I've been transported outside of my life and am now watching a indie montage of things that have happened to me"._
